The fountains also of the deep and the windows of heaven were
stopped, and the rain from heaven was restrained.
And the waters returned from off the earth continually: and after
the end of the hundred and fifty days the waters were abated.
And the ark rested in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of
the month, upon the mountains of Ararat.
And the waters decreased continually until the tenth month: in the
tenth month, on the first day of the month, were the tops of the
mountains seen.
¶ And it came to pass at the end of forty days, that Noah opened the
window of the ark which he had made:
and he sent forth a raven, which went forth to and fro, until the
waters were dried up from off the earth.
Also he sent forth a dove from him, to see if the waters were abated
from off the face of the ground.
But the dove found no rest for the sole of her foot, and she returned
unto him into the ark; for the waters were on the face of the whole
earth. Then he put forth his hand, and took her, and pulled her in
unto him into the ark.
And he stayed yet other seven days; and again he sent forth the
dove out of the ark.
And the dove came in to him in the evening, and, lo, in her mouth
was an olive leaf plucked off: so Noah knew that the waters were
abated from off the earth.
And he stayed yet other seven days, and sent forth the dove, which
returned not again unto him any more.
And it came to pass in the six hundredth and first year, in the first
month, the first day of the month, the waters were dried up from off
the earth: and Noah removed the covering of the ark, and looked,
	and, behold, the face of the ground was dry.
	And in the second month, on the seven and twentieth day of the
	month, was the earth dried.
	And God spake unto Noah, saying,
	Go forth of the ark, thou, and thy wife, and thy sons, and thy sons’
	wives with thee. 
	Bring forth with thee every living thing that is with thee, of all
	flesh, both of fowl, and of cattle, and of every creeping thing that
	creepeth upon the earth; that they may breed abundantly in the
	earth, and be fruitful, and multiply upon the earth.
	And Noah went forth, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons’
	wives with him:
	every beast, every creeping thing, and every fowl, and whatsoever
	creepeth upon the earth, after their kinds, went forth out of the
	ark.
	¶ And Noah builded an altar unto the Lord; and took of every
	clean beast, and of every clean fowl, and offered burnt offerings on
	the altar.
	And the Lord smelled a sweet savor; and the Lord said in his
	heart, I will not again curse the ground any more for man’s sake;
	for the imagination of man’s heart is evil from his youth: neither
	will I again smite any more every thing living, as I have done.
	While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and
	heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease. 
	And God blessed Noah and his sons, and said unto them, Be
	fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth.
	And the fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast
	of the earth, and upon every fowl of the air, upon all that moveth
	upon the earth, and upon all the fishes of the sea; into your hand are
	they delivered.
	Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you; even as the
	green herb have I given you all things.
	But flesh with the life thereof, which is the blood thereof, shall ye
	not eat. 
	And surely your blood of your lives will I require: at the hand of
	every beast will I require it, and at the hand of man; at the hand of
	every man’s brother will I require the life of man.
	Whoso sheddeth man’s blood, by man shall his blood be shed: for
	in the image of God made he man.
	And you, be ye fruitful, and multiply; bring forth abundantly in
	the earth, and multiply therein.
	¶ And God spake unto Noah, and to his sons with him, saying,
	And I, behold, I establish my covenant with you, and with your
	seed after you;
	and with every living creature that is with you, of the fowl, of the
	cattle, and of every beast of the earth with you; from all that go out
	of the ark, to every beast of the earth.
	And I will establish my covenant with you; neither shall all flesh be
	cut off any more by the waters of a flood; neither shall there any
	more be a flood to destroy the earth.
	And God said, This is the token of the covenant which I make
	between me and you, and every living creature that is with you, for
	perpetual generations:
	I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of a
	covenant between me and the earth.
	And it shall come to pass, when I bring a cloud over the earth, that
	the bow shall be seen in the cloud:
	and I will remember my covenant, which is between me and you
	and every living creature of all flesh; and the waters shall no more
	become a flood to destroy all flesh.
	And the bow shall be in the cloud; and I will look upon it, that I
	may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every
	living creature of all flesh that is upon the earth.
	And God said unto Noah, This is the token of the covenant, which I
	have established between me and all flesh that is upon the earth. 
